the Israeli Prime Minister has called
for calm after demonstrators including
farri right politicians forced their way
into two military
[Applause]
bases Benjamin Netanyahu said he
strongly condemned the disturbances the
protesters were angered by the arrest of
soldiers accused of severely abusing a
Palestinian detainee Israeli media
reports suggest the Palestinian prisoner
had been sexually assaulted by the
reservists Israel denied allegations by
human rights groups that suspected Hamas
Fighters suffer systematic abuse in
detention we're going now live to
Jerusalem to speak to our Middle East
correspondent yoland Nell yoland we've
heard about these nine soldiers that
have been uh detained soldiers who are
working in the said man Detention Center
can you tell us
more well we saw those Rowdy and chaotic
scenes uh at the detention center it's a
camp uh for Palestinians who have been
uh picked up during the course of the
Gaza War um and it's really become uh
quite notorious with Israeli rights
groups uh International media including
the BBC investigating what's happening
there um we've been hearing uh in recent
months how uh Palestinian detes are
routinely Shackled to hospital beds
they've been kept blindfolded and kept
even wearing nappies um and really um
when the news broke that these soldiers
had been detained for questioning for
the the sexual assault of a detainee
believed to be a member of Hamas um
we're told according to Israeli media
reports that he had been left unable uh
to walk um well crowds gathered uh
outside the military base and then what
we saw was actually some of those uh
protesters breaking in as Israeli
military investigators arrived at the
site later on uh they broke in uh to a
second uh military base where there's a
a military court and really you know
that's got uh the Israeli military Chief
of Staff uh denouncing all of this
calling this unlawful uh Anarchy um
we've had the Israeli Prime Minister and
other figures denouncing it uh but you
also have um an prominent member of
Israel's Hardline government the cabinet
minister bezel smotrich who is from the
far and of course as you said there were
farri right members of parliament who
were among those who broke in at the
site well bezel smotrich said on social
media that the soldiers who had been
detained should be treated as Heroes not
criminals and yand what does this tell
us about divisions within Israel uh not
just between government members but uh
between you know different groups within
Israel and also uh within the
International Community over pressure
about how Israel is conducting itself in
Gaza yeah I mean so really what we see
here are the very partisan divisions um
that are on display in Israel at the
moment particularly with this Hardline
government in place uh the Israeli Prime
Minister relies on the support of these
uh far-right Ultra nationalist uh
parties he couldn't remain in power
without them and that is really fed into
to some of the political divisions the
social divisions that already existed
within the country and then on top of
that yes you know this other dimension
Israel is currently facing uh cases
before International courts it's accused
uh of war crimes a lot of accusations
over its uh conduct of the war in Gaza
International pressure it strongly um
denies uh those accusations of war
crimes and yet you know the Israeli
military always says it independently
investigates any cases of of wrongdoing
of alleged use that come to light and it
deals with them accordingly what you
have here is Israeli ministers even
apparently undermining uh the Israeli
military procedures yoland thank you as
ever for updating us from Jerusalem
there Benjamin Netanyahu says his
country will deliver a severe response
to the missile strike on the Israeli
occupied goolan Heights the attack on
Saturday struck a soccer field in the
town of melem killing 12 12 young people
Mr Netanyahu cut short a tour of the
United States to visit the site of the
attack on Monday he conveyed his
condolences to the local community which
is mostly made up of the Arab durus
minority on Sunday Israel fired on S sit
in South Lebanon it says belong to the
militant group hisbah Israel blames
hisbah for the attack an accusation the
group denies amiddle East correspondent
Hugo Bea is in South Lebanon with the
latest so the wait here uh in Lebanon
continues uh yesterday uh the prime
minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
again said that Israel would respond to
the attack that happened on Saturday and
that this response would be severe now
we know that there has been intense
diplomatic activity trying to limit this
uh Israeli response the Americans in
particular are heavily involved in these
uh efforts to try to contain uh an
escalation of hostilities here and I
think the goal of these uh efforts try
to prevent an escalation that would put
Hezbollah in a position where the group
would feel they have to respond to any
kind of major Israeli attack uh and I
think uh an attack on the capital of
bayout Hezbollah has its base in the
southern suburbs of Beirut or any
Israeli attack targeting a Lebanese
civilian infrastructure could be seen by
Hezbollah as a major escalation as a
major provocation and could uh spark uh
a response by
Hezbollah that was Hugo Bea there